We both ride the T but in different contexts.  Mike commutes and rides the trains every weekday, Brian takes them into the city on weekends or weekday nights.

We were familiar with several historic train visualizations which only had schedule data to visualize.  There also seemed to be several apps built of off the MBTA’s real time data but fewer reports that did historical analysis.  We thought that armed with this new real-time data and building on ideas from historic works that there was a chance to provide this data in a form that people didn’t already have.

# Feedback
We received feedback on the visualization from many sources.  During the class we gave four different presentations on the project and we received valuable feedback from the other students and professor which helped guide the design. After posting our visualization on Reddit and Hacker News Brian engaged in conversations and got useful feedback in their discussion forums.  Mike is partial to Twitter since he works there, but we do think that Twitter was one of our best sources of feedback. Since the platform is public, real-time, conversational, and widely-adopted by the data visualization community, people from all over the world have been tagging Mike to provide feedback and ask questions.  To encourage this, we linked to Mike’s Twitter profile from the visualization and also added Twitter Card metadata that renders a links to his profile any time anyone tweets the link.  Since Mike didn’t have many Twitter followers, getting retweeted by Mike Bostock, Bret Victor, and Edward Tufte were invaluable in reaching out the larger community on Twitter.  We also presented the project at a data visualization meetup and got some great feedback from local visualization experts.  Overall the feedback received in person and online has been incredibly helpful.

# Response
We’ve had a really great response from the online community and have received many requests for the source code and are looking at open sourcing the project now.  We made a simple real time app based on some of the designs from the visualization and are trying to gauge interest if people want to see more.  If you or your readers are interested in something like this let us know!